# Introduction
📊 Dive into the world of digital marketing campaign. This project explores the performance of various ad campaigns, providing insights into 💰 ad spend, 🔥 key metrics like clicks and conversions, and 📈 how different factors impact overall campaign success.
***
🔍 SQL queries? Check them out [here](/queries/):
# Background
Driven by a quest to optimize digital advertising strategies, this project was born from a desire to pinpoint top-performing campaigns, identify high-impact metrics, and streamline efforts to maximize return on investment from advertising spend. This analysis leverages comprehensive campaign data to uncover actionable insights.
## Questions
1. What is the average number of clicks for all advertisements?
2. Which campaign_name has the highest total sale_amount?
3. What is the id with the highest conversion_rate?
4. What is the total cost incurred across all campaigns?
5. Which location generated the most leads?
6. How many unique campaign_name are present in the dataset?
7. What is the average cost per click?
8. Which device type has the highest average impressions?
9. What is the maximum sale_amount recorded for a single ad?
10. How many conversions were recorded on '2024-11-16'?
11. What is the total number of impressions for ads with location 'Hyderabad'?
12. Which keyword is associated with the highest number of leads?
13. What is the average conversion_rate for ads run on 'Mobile' device?
14. How many ads have a cost greater than the average cost?
15. What is the id that resulted in the lowest sale_amount?
16. Which location has the highest average sale_amount?
17. How many ads were run on 'Desktop' device with more than 100 clicks?
18. What is the average number of leads per id?
19. What is the total sale_amount generated by ads on '2024-11-20'?
20. Which campaign_name has the lowest average cost?
# Tools I Used
For my deep dive into the digital advertising strategies, I harnessed the power of several key tools:
- **SQL:** The backbone of my analysis, allowing me to query the database and unearth critical insights.
- **MySQL:** The chosen database management system, ideal for handling the job posting data.
- **Visual Studio Code:** My go-to for database management and executing SQL queries.
- **Git & GitHub:** Essential for version control and sharing my SQL scripts and analysis, ensuring collaboration and project tracking.
# The Analysis
Each query for this project aimed at investigating specific aspects of the data analyst job market. Here’s how I approached each question:
### 1.What is the average number of clicks for all advertisements?
```sql
SELECT AVG(clicks) AS average_clicks
FROM ads;
```
### 2.Which campaign_name has the highest total sale_amount?
```sql
SELECT campaign_name, SUM(sale_amount) AS total_sales
FROM sales
GROUP BY campaign_name
ORDER BY total_sales DESC
LIMIT 1;
```
### 3.What is the id with the highest conversion_rate?
```sql
SELECT id,conversion_rate
FROM sales
ORDER BY conversion_rate DESC
LIMIT 1;
```
The remaining queries are provided below.
[Queries](/queries/)
# What I Learned
Throughout this adventure, I've turbocharged my SQL toolkit with some serious firepower:
- **🧩 Complex Query Crafting:** Mastered the art of advanced SQL, aggregrating data like a pro and wielding WITH clauses for ninja-level temp table maneuvers.
- **📊 Data Aggregation:** Got cozy with GROUP BY and turned aggregate functions like COUNT() and AVG() into my data-summarizing sidekicks.
- **💡 Analytical Wizardry:** Leveled up my real-world puzzle-solving skills, turning questions into actionable, insightful SQL queries.
# Conclusions
This project, by analyzing the advertising campaign data, has provided valuable insights into optimizing digital marketing strategies. The findings from this analysis serve as a guide to prioritizing advertising spend and focusing campaign efforts on channels, keywords, and locations that yield the highest returns. Marketers can better position their campaigns in a competitive digital landscape by focusing on high-performing ads, devices, and keywords that drive conversions and sales. This exploration highlights the importance of continuous data analysis and adaptation to emerging trends in the field of digital advertising to ensure maximum ROI.
